Well, this wouldn't be a programming
course if we didn't code the traditional
'Hello World' application, so let's go
ahead and do that because even though
it's a trivial application, I'll be
able to demonstrate a few key differences
between Kotlin and Java, now ideally
you'll code along with me from this
point forward. You'll learn a lot more by
practicing and typing in the code will
reinforce the syntax and the concepts,
so if you can, follow along. So we'll start
out by creating an intelliJ project,
we're going to go to file, new, project.
Now, if this is the very first intelliJ
project that you're creating, and you
don't have a project open
you're probably started out with a small screen
that has a few options on it and
one of those will be to create a project
so just click that and when you do,
you'll end up at this point, so once you're here
either because you want to file new
or you clicked create new project from the
opening intelliJ screen, make sure
you have Kotlin selected on the left hand side
because of course we want
to create a Kotlin project and make sure you have
Kotlin JVM selected on the right hand side,
because we're targeting the JVM
and then click Next. So, we're going to call
the project 'HelloWorld'. Now there's a
couple of other fields you can fill out
if you want to. You can change where the
project files will be stored, make sure
you have an SDK set and enter the call
and run time. At this point, there's only
one option, so keep it at Kotlin Java runtime.
Now, if this is the very first time
you're creating a Kotlin project,
your dialogue might look like this
and what might happen when you click finish,
is you might get an error
that says something about a missing module name.
That's what happened to me
the very first time I created a Kotlin project,
so, if you get that error open up the
more settings and make sure this module name
field is filled in and just fill it in
to match the project name
and then you'll be good to go.
So for some reason once you've done this
IntelliJ will automatically fill the
module name in for you. From that point
forward, so it only happened to me the
very first time I created a project
it might not happen to you, but just in case
it does I thought I'd mention it.
So once your dialogs all filled in, you can
click finish, now if you had a project open
you'll have a choice of opening the
new project and in this window which
will replace the project you have open or
in a new window, I'm going to click this
window and IntelliJ went ahead and
created a Kotlin project for us.
Let's go over to the project navigator and expand
the project node and we'll see that it's
a bare-bones project there's no files
created for us, the only thing that we
have is a source folder, so let's go
ahead and create a package.
We'll right-click on the source folder,
we'll go to new, package and we'll call the
academy.learnprogramming.helloworld
and click OK and then we'll right-click on the package
and we'll create a new Kotlin file or class
we have a choice and this should be your
first hint that there's something
different about Kotlin and Java
because we're being offered a choice of a file
or a class here, we'll click on that
and we'll call the file 'HelloWorld' and
we're going to keep it at file for now,
you can see that there's other things you can create,
but for this little trivial application, we just need a file
so we'll stick with that, click OK and now,
if we expand the package we'll see that
we have a HelloWorld.kt file and we'll
see the name also up here on the tab,
so now it's a good time to talk
about what happens when you compile a Kotlin program,
the Kotlin compiler which is
called kotlinc takes files with the
.kt extension as input and generates
bytecode as .class files and at that
point the .class files are equivalent
to Java .class files, so essentially
when you're working with Java, Java C
the Java compiler compiles your .java files
into .class files and when you're
working with Kotlin, the Kotlin compiler,
kotlinc compiles your Kotlin files,
your .kt files into .class files
and from that point forward, those .class
files look the same to the JVM,
so you run them on the JVM,
the only difference and this is an
important difference, is that when you're
running a Kotlin application,
you're going to need the Kotlin runtime library
so if you're going to distribute
your Kotlin application, you also have to
distribute the Kotlin runtime library.
Okay, so now let's write our hello world
application, I'll just add a blank line here.
So, we're going to create the
main function here and the IDE will help us
out with this line if we type main
and then hit enter,
it will actually create the function for us.
I'll just click here to get rid of
that light bulb so we can see it
and let's point out a few things about
this function. Okay, so our first important
difference between Kotlin and Java is
this function isn't within a class,
so, we're able to have code outside classes
when we compile the application,
the compiler will create a class under the
covers for us, so it's not really that
we can have code outside of classes,
it's just that when we're writing the code,
we don't have to explicitly include
the class definition, remember that one of
the goals of Kotlin is to be more
concise and to cut down on boilerplate code,
and in this case when we have only
one function why do we have to type in
the class definition, the compiler is
smart enough to know that we have
to have this inside a class and it will
generate the class under the covers for us,
so, the function takes one argument
called args it's an array of string.
Does that sound familiar? Well, it should
because that's the same signature as the
main method for a java application and
of course, that makes sense because
we're going to be running this application
on the JVM and the JVM is going to be
looking for the usual main method signature is the entry point
of the application, now the parameter
declaration might look a little bit
backwards to you, because we've got
the name before the type and row, we'll cover
this later in the course. Also you'll
notice that the array is a capital A,
it's a class, everything is a class in Kotlin,
so there isn't an array with
a lowercase a in Kotlin and you might
have noticed there's no return type specified
anywhere, we don't see void anywhere here
and don't worry we're going to cover
functions in detail later in the course
for now all you have to understand
is that we've declared the main function
and it has the same signature as the
main method in a java application.
Now, functions defined outside classes are
called top-level functions, so this main function
is a top-level function
because it's not explicitly
defined within a class. Okay, so all we
have left to do is to actually print
'hello world' so let's do that,
and this should look familiar to you,
the only difference between this and what you'd
write in Java actually there are two
differences the first one is we're using
print line rather than system.out.println and the
second difference is no semicolon at the end of the line
and we'll go over this later,
in the course! So, let's go ahead and run.
There are several ways we can do this,
we can come to the K that's next to the
function and click on it and select run,
from here we can also right click
and select run from this menu or we can go
up to run select run here and then this
line here in the selection will actually
run the application for us, I'm just
going to do it using the K, so I'll run
our application is compiling and then
we see hello world written to the console.
Now, after you run an application for the
first time, you'll notice that up here on
the toolbar you now have what's called
the run configuration and from this
point forward, if you want to run the
application, you just have to click on
the green arrow and this is my preferred
method because often the main function
won't be on the screen or it might even
be in a different file so it's quicker.
a lot of the times to just click the green
arrow here, which I'm doing now and it'll
just run the application again.
So, congratulations you've just written
and run your first Kotlin program and don't
worry we're going to go over everything
that you see in the code, in more detail
later in the course.
I'll see you in the next video!